# Team Charter & Working Agreement

# Team Members & Roles

Daniel Green: Architect/Project Manager, Focus Tool & Misc. Implementation

* Primary responsibilities:  
  * Facilitate project planning meetings with project partner and team members  
  * Develop feature to assist users with ensuring optimal focus of the camera is achieved  
* Backups: Nathan Puckett for PM, Raed Kabir for Focus-assist  
* Email: [greend5@oregonstate.edu](mailto:greend5@oregonstate.edu) 

Raed Kabir: Implementation

* Responsible for the general implementation, ranging from UI elements to lens validation.  
* Backup: Bernardo Mendes   
* Email: [kabirr@oregonstate.edu](mailto:kabirr@oregonstate.edu) 

Bernardo Mendes: Implementation

* Responsible for lens validation implementation using OptiTrack test camera  
* Backup: General system architecture and implementation when needed  
* Email: [mendesb@oregonstate.edu](mailto:mendesb@oregonstate.edu) 

Jack Ollenbrook: Implementation part 2

* Responsible for implementation of lens validation using one of the OptiTrack cameras  
* Backup: Nathan Puckett  
* Email: [ollenbrj@oregonstate.edu](mailto:ollenbrj@oregonstate.edu) 

Nathan Puckett: GUI

* Responsible for research regarding, and implementation of, our software application’s GUI  
* Backup: Jack Ollenbrook  
* Email: [puckette@oregonstate.edu](mailto:puckette@oregonstate.edu)

# Decision-Making Model

* Decision-making is done within the Discord server or in person during meetings. We have 5 team members, so for most decisions, a simple majority of 3 out of 5 is enough for simple decisions  
* For more important design decisions, we ask for clarification or input from our project partners, Anthony Lazarro or Chris Bakkom from OptiTrack, via email.

# Meeting Cadence & Tools

* Weekly virtual meetings with the project partner every Tuesday from 10-10:30 am  
  * This is allowed to go until 11 am if need be  
  * For checking in with the project partner and asking for help or guidance when applicable  
* In-person meetings at the OptiTrack campus are not regular, but are planned to happen whenever we reach a milestone or have software we want to test on one of their testing stations.  
  * These meetings can be requested up to a day or two in advance, and would likely span an hour.  
* Bi-weekly meetings with TA from 9:35 to 10 am to give sprint progress report, gain feedback, and ask clarifying questions regarding assignments, general expectations, etc.  
* General response time between team members is expected within 24 hours.

# Risk Management & Escalation Path

* Scope creep  
  * Indicators: Features are suggested that would exceed the time or group skill capacity of the project.  
  * Escalation: By team to the project partner and TA if required, with evidence of risk.  
  * Timeline: Resolution  
* Feature overlap  
  * Indicators: Merge conflicts and duplicate code across features  
  * Escalation: By the developer to the author of duplicate code/feature for consolidation and resolution, providing visual or text evidence of overlap.  
* Poor communication  
  * Indicators: Missed deadlines and nonresponse to project-related questions  
  * Escalation: By team to TA, providing evidence of correspondence and outreach attempts

# Conflict Resolution & Accountability

* Attendance of project planning meetings can be captured, allowing participation to be measured.  
  * Restorative action: Reach out to team member and TA if necessary to resolve attendance issues  
* Stagnant issues in sprint planning can be discussed during the round-table portion (blockers, dependencies)  
  * Restorative action: Reassessment of item difficulty and reassignment of the issue to a backup member  
  * Restorative Action: Perform team-based code reviews to identify current bugs to aid implementation efforts. Some tasks may be more difficult than others. 

# Definition of Done (DoD) & Quality Gates

* Chris and Anthony, our project partners, included GitHub issues with some requirements for each step of the project. These requirements must be met before the issue is ready to be merged as a PR.  
* Certain implementations with the cameras cannot be fully tested yet because we do not have the required hardware (lenses that represent “failures” or “checks”), but once we do have access to that hardware, we will run it through tests to check for consistent evaluation results from our software.  
* Code Reviews will be done by at least one other member of the group before PRs can be merged from a dev branch onto the main branch. In addition, code reviews will be done by Chris or Anthony when pushed from our fork onto the base OptiTrack repo.  
* Documentation of each feature for the PR will be included 

# Accessibility & Inclusion Practices

* All meeting times and dates are within Pacific Standard Time (PST)  
* During our weekly meetings with OptiTrack, at least one person should be taking notes  
* Turn-taking doesn’t need to be planned-out beforehand, but in case multiple people have questions they want to ask, make sure they’re given enough time to ask them  
* When accommodations need to be met or barriers need to be addressed, write/ask about it in the general channel of our Discord server, that way we can all decide on a solution together  
  * When a solution cannot be agreed upon within our team, contact the project partner or TA/instructors as necessary

# Policy Owners & Review Dates

| Owner | Section | Update process | Next review date |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Daniel Green | Risk Management | Regular collaboration with team and project partners will enable assessment of current risk and addition of new risk as required. | Every Tues, 10a (round table) |
| Nathan Puckett | Conflict Resolution & Accountability \+  Accessibility & Inclusion Practices | Keep note of our team’s communication levels and progress with solving issues/tasks to ensure our rules are clear and reasonable. If there are any problems regarding how we have things set up, discuss within team and update this section of the document as necessary. If a problem is found to consistently arise (i.e. schedules change and someone can’t make it to our weekly meetings anymore), update the accessibility policy to outline the resolution to this sort of problem. | Monday, November 10th (every Monday after a sprint report is turned in) |
| Jack Ollenbrook | Meeting Cadence  \+  Decision-Making Model | General reminders to all group members about the upcoming meeting through the Discord server 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Creating an opportunity for anyone to mention their conflict if they haven't already, propose an update if necessary, and be approved next review date.For group decisions, I will oversee voting via the Discord polls feature, which provides an easy voting system when needed. Then, for higher-level decisions, we can all communicate exactly what we need to ask our project partner for clear communication. If this ever feels unjust, anyone can propose an update that will be discussed within the Discord to then update the policy. | Every other Monday, starting on November 10th. |
| Raed Kabir | Definition of Done | Defining what is done mainly ties into what the project partner needs. Given that we were given detailed feature requests via GitHub issues, a completed feature demonstrates reliable and appropriate functionality as per the project partner’s requests. Being “done” applies to only the core functionalities, not stretch goals. If a feature is buggy or exhibits undefined behavior—even rarely—the implementation is not done. | Every other Monday, starting on November 10th. |

# Links & Artifacts

* [OptiTrack Repo](https://github.com/OptiTrack/Production-Lens-Validation)

* [Open Issues](https://github.com/OptiTrack/Production-Lens-Validation/issues)

* [Our Fork](https://github.com/fuzzylogic88/Production-Lens-Validation) 

* [Project Planning Meeting Notes Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nnzqwNUusNELBq_GGRviX8nbrYo90r3r/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=110159909904866897803&rtpof=true&sd=true)
